[FIX] developer: rewrite a bunch of outdated info in JS reference (#9180)
odoo/documentation: content/developer/reference/frontend/javascript_reference.rst

or one may need to directly call a controller (available on some route).

* Calling a method on a python model is done through the orm service:

.. code-block:: javascript

    return this.orm.call("some.model", "some_method", [some, args]);

* Directly calling a controller, this is done with rpc service:

.. code-block:: javascript

    return this.rpc("/some/route/", {
        some: param,
    });

.. note::
    The rpc service doesn't really perform what is generally understood as a
    remote procedure call (RPC), but for historical reasons, within Odoo we
    generally call any network request performed in JavaScript an RPC. As
    highlighted in the previous paragraph, if you want to call a method on a
    model, you should use the orm service.

Notifications
=============

The Odoo framework has a standard way to communicate various information to the
user: notifications, which are displayed on the top right of the user interface.
The types of notification follow the bootstrap toasts:

- *info*: useful to display some informational feedback as a consequence of an
  action that cannot fail.

> - *success*: the user performed an action that can sometimes fail but didn't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *success*: the user performed an action that can sometimes fail but didn't.
```

- *warning*: the user performed an action that could only be partially completed.
  Also useful if something is wrong but wasn't caused by the user directly, or
  is not particularly actionable.

> - *success*: the user tried to performed an action but it couldn't be completed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *success*: the user tried to performed an action but it couldn't be completed.
```

and can communicate with their environment just like other components, e.g. by
interacting with services.

Adding a new Systray Item
-------------------------

Items can be added to the systray by adding them to the "systray" registry:

.. code-block:: javascript

    import { registry } from "@web/core/registry"
    class MySystrayComponent extends Component {
        ...
    }
    registry.category("systray").add("MySystrayComponent", MySystrayComponent, { sequence: 1 });

The items are ordered in the systray according to their sequence in the systray
registry.

Translation management
======================

Some translations are made on the server side (basically all text strings rendered or
processed by the server), but there are strings in the static files that need
to be translated. The way it currently works is the following:

- each translatable string is tagged with the special function *_t*
- these strings are used by the server to generate the proper PO files
- whenever the web client is loaded, it will call the route */web/webclient/translations*,
  which returns a list of all translatable terms

> - at runtime, whenever the function *_t* is called, it will look up in this list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- at runtime, whenever the function `_t` is called, it will look up in this list
```

  in order to find a translation, and return it or the original string if none
  is found.

Note that translations are explained in more details, from the server point of
view, in the document :doc:`/developer/howtos/translations`.

.. code-block:: javascript

    import { _t } from "@web/core/l10n/translation";

    class SomeComponent extends Component {
        static exampleString = _t("this should be translated");
        ...
        someMethod() {
            const str = _t("some text");
        }
    }

> Note that using the translation function requires some care: he string given as
> an argument cannot be dynamic, as it is extracted statically from the code to
> generate the PO files and serves as the identifier for the term to translate. If
> you need to inject some dynamic content in the string, `_t` supports placeholders:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that using the translation function requires some care: the string given as
an argument cannot be dynamic, as it is extracted statically from the code to
generate the PO files and serves as the identifier for the term to translate. If
you need to inject some dynamic content in the string, `_t` supports placeholders:
```

.. code-block:: javascript

    import { _t } from "@web/core/l10n/translation";
    const str = _t("Hello %s, you have %s unread messages.", user.name, unreadCount);

Notice how the string itself is fixed. This allows the translation function to
retrieve the translated string *before* using it for interpolation.

Session
=======

The webclient needs some information from the python to function properly. To
avoid an extra round-trip with the server by making a network request in JavaScript,
this information is serialized directly in the page, and can be accessed in JS
through the `@web/session` module.

Adding information to the session
---------------------------------

> When the /web route is loaded, the server will inject this information in a script
> tag. The information will be obtrained by calling the method *session_info* of
> the model *ir.http*. You can override this method to add information to the
> returned dictionary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `/web` route is loaded, the server injects this information in a script
tag. The information is obtained by calling the method `session_info` of
the model `ir.http`. You can override this method to add information to the
returned dictionary.
```

.. code-block:: javascript

    import { session } from "@web/session"
    const myValue = session.some_key;
    ...

Note that this mechanism is designed to reduce the amount of communication
needed by the web client to be ready.  It is only appropriate for data which is
cheap to compute (a slow session_info call will delay the loading for the web
client for everyone), and for data which is required early in the initialization
process.

Views
=====

The word "view" has more than one meaning. This section is about the design of
the javascript code of the views, not the structure of the *arch* or anything
else.

> While views are just owl omponents, the built-in views generally have the same
> structure: a component called "SomethingController" which is the root of the view,
> this component creates an instance of some "model" (an object responsible for
> managing the data), and has a subcomponent called a "renderer" that handles the
> display logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While views are just owl components, the built-in views generally have the same
structure: a component called "SomethingController" which is the root of the view.
This component creates an instance of some "model" (an object responsible for
managing the data), and has a subcomponent called a "renderer" that handles the
display logic.
```

Client actions
==============

> A client action is a component that can be displayed as the main element in the
> webclient, occupying all the space below the navbar, just like an *act_window_action*.
> This is useful when you need a component that is not closely linked to an existing
> view or a specific model.  For example, the Discuss application is a client action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A client action is a component that can be displayed as the main element in the
webclient, occupying all the space below the navbar, just like an `act_window_action`.
This is useful when you need a component that is not closely linked to an existing
view or a specific model.  For example, the Discuss application is a client action.
```

A client action is a term that has various meanings, depending on the context:

- from the perspective of the server, it is a record of the model *ir_action*,
  with a field *tag* of type char
- from the perspective of the web client, it is an Owl component registered in the
  action registry under the same key its tag

Whenever a menu item is associated with a client action, opening it will simply
fetch the action definition from the server, then lookup its tag in the action

> registry to get the component definition. This component will then rendered by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
registry to get the component definition. This component will then be rendered by
```
